Contributing guide (#1642)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/contributing/index.md

{% navtab "Admin API" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "license.json" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}{% endraw %}
```
<!--vale on-->

Rendered output:
<!--vale off-->
{% navtabs "deploy-a-license" %}
{% navtab "Admin API" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "license.json" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
<!--vale on-->

### {{site.konnect_short_name}} roles

Creates a table with the {{site.konnect_short_name}} roles and descriptions.
<!--vale off-->
```
{% raw %}{% konnect_roles_table %}
schema: control_planes
{% endkonnect_roles_table %}{% endraw %}
```

### Version badge

Displays which version a feature was introduced in. You can use this in headers, tables, and inline text.

Code example:
<!--vale off-->
```
{% raw %}{% new_in 3.8 %} New feature{% endraw %}
```
<!--vale on-->

Rendered output:
<!--vale off-->
{% new_in 3.8 %} New feature
<!--vale on-->

### No copy code

Prevents users from copying code in a code block.
<!--vale off-->
```
{% raw %}{:.no-copy-code}{% endraw %}
```
<!--vale on-->

### Render code block/text per deployment type

Displays the code block/text only if the specified deployment type is selected.
<!--vale off-->
```

> {% raw %}{: data-deployment-topology="konnect" }
> {: data-deployment-topology="on-prem" }{% endraw %}

Reviewer: ````suggestion
{% raw %}
```
code for konnect
```
{: data-deployment-topology="konnect" }

```
code for on-prem
```
{: data-deployment-topology="on-prem" }{% endraw %}
````
I _think_ using the `raw` tag works on backticks, but I'm not 100% sure.

```
<!--vale on-->

### Notes and warnings

You can specify different types of notes and warnings.

Code example:
<!--vale off-->
```
{% raw %}{:.warning} # yellow note
{:.info} # blue note
{:.success} # green note
{:.danger} # red note
{:.neutral} # grey note
{:.decorative} # purple note
{:.info .no-icon} # add to any note type to remove the icon {% endraw %}
```
<!--vale on-->

Rendered output:
<!--vale off-->

> {:.warning} # yellow note
> {:.info} # blue note
> {:.success} # green note
> {:.danger} # red note
> {:.neutral} # grey note
> {:.decorative} # purple note
> {:.info .no-icon} # add to any note type to remove the icon

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{:.warning}
> yellow note

{:.info}
> blue note

{:.success}
> green note

{:.danger}
> red note

{:.neutral} 
> grey note

{:.decorative}
> purple note

{:.info .no-icon}
> add `.no-icon` to any note type to remove the icon

```

<!--vale on-->

> ### How to validations
> 
> The how to pages typically include a validation step as the final step. This allows users to verify that the steps worked as intended. Validation steps are written in a `yaml` block to ensure consistency and that it is formatted correctly in the output.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How-to validations

The how-to pages typically include a validation step as the final step. This allows users to verify that the steps worked as intended. Validation steps are written in a `yaml` block to ensure consistency and that they are formatted correctly in the output.
```

> #### Rate limit check

Reviewer: Might be useful to provide a link to a guide where each of there validations is in use, to show where it gets used in context.

Rendered output:
<!--vale off-->
{% validation request-check %}
url: '/anything' 
status_code: 200
display_headers: true 
headers: 
  - "Kong-Admin-Token: $USER_TOKEN"
method: GET
body:  
  user:
    name: Kong User
    city: London
{% endvalidation %}
<!--vale on-->

#### Unauthorized check

The `unauthorized-check` generates a code block that users can run to validate that a Consumer is unauthorized.

Code example:
<!--vale off-->
```
{% raw %}{% validation unauthorized-check %}
url: /anything
headers:
  - 'authorization: Bearer wrongpassword'
  - 'Content-Type: application/json'
status_code: 401
{% endvalidation %}{% endraw %}
```
<!--vale on-->

Rendered output:
<!--vale off-->
{% validation unauthorized-check %}
url: /anything
headers:
  - 'authorization: Bearer wrongpassword'
  - 'Content-Type: application/json'
status_code: 401
{% endvalidation %}
<!--vale on-->

## Landing page blocks

Landing pages are built in `yaml` and they use columns that contain blocks to render content. For example, if you have a column that contains one block, the one block will span the page width. If you have a column with two or three blocks, the blocks will equally split the span of the page.

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

You can also specify a strict number of columns using `column_count`, forcing the section to always arrange all blocks into that number of columns.
```yaml
 - columns:
   column_count: 3
     - blocks:
        - type: plugin
          config:
            slug: rate-limiting
        - type: plugin
          config:
            slug: rate-limiting-advanced
```
````

> ### Structured text

Reviewer: ````suggestion

### Headers

Any section can have a header. 
* Use H1 headers only for page titles. 
* Structure headers in sequential order. 
For example, you can have H1 > H2 > H3 > H2 > H3, but not H1 > H3 > H2.

```yaml
  - header:
      type: h1
      text: "Konnect Advanced Analytics"
      sub_text: A single location for context-rich, business-critical API and AI insights

  - header:
      type: h2
      text: "Traditional mode"

### Structured text
````

          Data Plane nodes 
          #40;hosted by Kong#41;)

          subgraph id1 [Konnect]
          A
          B
          end

          A --proxy configuration---> C & D
          B --proxy configuration---> E

          style id1 stroke-dasharray:3,rx:10,ry:10
```
<!--vale on-->

### Card

Displays a card/tile that a user can click on a landing page. 

<!--vale off-->
```yaml
- blocks:
    - type: card
      config:
        title: Create a Dev Portal
        description: |
          {{site.konnect_short_name}} allows you to publish, document, and secure APIs to drive adoption for any developer audience. 
          You can create multiple Dev Portals based on selected APIs with appropriate visibility and access control settings.
        icon: /assets/icons/dev-portal.svg
        cta:
          url: "https://cloud.konghq.com/portals/create"
```
<!--vale on-->

### Plugin cards

Displays the title, icon, description, and link to a plugin as a card/tile on a landing page.

<!--vale off-->
```yaml
- blocks:
    - type: plugin
      config:
        slug: rate-limiting
```
<!--vale on-->

> ### Autogenerated how to list
> 
> Displays a list of how to pages that contain the specified metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Autogenerated how-to list

Displays a list of how-to pages that contain the specified metadata.
```

                  ee: true
```
<!--vale on-->

### Table

Displays a regular table that contains text.

<!--vale off-->
```yaml
- blocks:
    - type: table
      config:
        columns:
          - title: Authentication flow or grant
            key: auth
          - title: Description
            key: description
          - title: Plugin example configuration
            key: example
          - title: How-to guide
            key: howto
        rows:
          - auth: Authorization Code flow
            description: |
              In an Authorization Code flow, clients exchange an authorization code for an access token.
              <br><br>
              [Workflow diagram &rarr;](/plugins/openid-connect/#authorization-code-flow)
            example: "[Authorization Code flow example](/plugins/openid-connect/examples/authorization-code/)"
            howto: "[OpenID Connect and Keycloak with the auth code flow](/how-to/configure-oidc-with-auth-code-flow/)"
```
<!--vale on-->

## Tools

The Kong Developer site uses tools to help with automation.

### Broken link checker: ignore URls

<!--vale off-->
```
tools/broken-link-checker/config/ignored_targets.json
```
<!--vale on-->

> ### Generate kong.conf reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Maybe take this out for now, and we can add generation guides in a follow-up? Fabian has readmes for all of them - could also just link to those.

                  oss: true
                  ee: true
```
<!--vale on-->

### Table

Displays a regular table that contains text.

<!--vale off-->
```yaml
- blocks:
    - type: table
      config:
        columns:
          - title: Authentication flow or grant
            key: auth
          - title: Description
            key: description
          - title: Plugin example configuration
            key: example
          - title: How-to guide
            key: howto
        rows:
          - auth: Authorization Code flow
            description: |
              In an Authorization Code flow, clients exchange an authorization code for an access token.
              <br><br>
              [Workflow diagram &rarr;](/plugins/openid-connect/#authorization-code-flow)
            example: "[Authorization Code flow example](/plugins/openid-connect/examples/authorization-code/)"
            howto: "[OpenID Connect and Keycloak with the auth code flow](/how-to/configure-oidc-with-auth-code-flow/)"
```
<!--vale on-->

## Tools

The Kong Developer site uses tools to help with automation.

### Broken link checker: ignore URls

> For more information, see the [broken link checker README](/Kong/developer.konghq.com/tree/main/tools/broken-link-checker#readme).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [broken link checker README](https://github.com/Kong/developer.konghq.com/tree/main/tools/broken-link-checker#readme).
```
